#  Get Started

Tuist is a command line interface (CLI), written in Swift, that helps developers maintain and interact with their Xcode projects.
It also abstracts them from the complexities that Xcode exposes.

If you have experience building apps for Apple platforms, like iOS, adding code to Tuist shouldn't be much different. There are two differences compared to developing apps that are worth mentioning:

- **The interactions with CLIs happen through the terminal.**
  The user executes Tuist, which performs the desired task, and then returns successfully or with an error code.
  During the execution, the user can be notified by sending output information to the standard output and standard error.
  There are no gestures, or graphical interactions, just the user intent.
- **There's no runloop** that keeps the process alive waiting for input, like it happens in an iOS app when the app receives system or user events.
  CLIs run in its process and finishes when the work is done.
  Asynchronous work can be done using system APIs like `DispatchQueue`, but need to make sure the process is running while the asynchronous work is being executed.
  Otherwise, the process will terminate the asynchronous work.

If you don't have any experience with Swift, we recommend [Apple's official book](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/) to get familiar with the language and the most used elements from the Foundation's API.

## Minimum requirements

To contribute to Tuist, minimum requirements are:

- `macOS 14.0+`
- `Xcode 15.0+`

## Set up the project locally

To start working on the project, we can follow the steps below:

- Clone the repository by running: `git clone git@github.com:tuist/tuist.git`
- Set up [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) to ensure a stable local environment.
- Run `tuist generate` to generate the Tuist Xcode project using tuist itself

The generated project opens automatically. If you need to open again without generating it, run `open Tuist.xcworkspace` (or ue Finder). Note that `xed .` will open the package, and not the project generated by tuist.


### Edit tuist with tuist

To edit Tuist manifests, run `tuist edit`.

To run other commands, you can use `swift run tuist command` (tuist with current changes) or `tuist run command` (tuist in your system).
If you have not built `ProjectDescription` before (or you have recently changed the framework), you might need to run `swift build --product ProjectDescription` before.

You can also leverage all the other tuist features that you know and love with the additional benefit of being able to validate your current changes on a complex project. If _any_ feature does not work as expected, feel free to raise an issue.

### Run Tuist from Xcode

You can run Tuist from Xcode like you'd do from your terminal.

With the project opened in Xcode:

- Edit the `tuist` scheme:
    - In the **Arguments** tab inside the **Run** section specify the arguments that you'd like to pass to Tuist
    - Change the **working directory** in the **options** section to point to the directory that contains the project
- Run the `tuist` scheme
