**STRUCT**

# `Workspace`

**Contents**

- [Properties](#properties)
  - `name`
  - `projects`
  - `schemes`
  - `fileHeaderTemplate`
  - `additionalFiles`
  - `generationOptions`
- [Methods](#methods)
  - `init(name:projects:schemes:fileHeaderTemplate:additionalFiles:generationOptions:)`

```swift
public struct Workspace: Codable, Equatable
```

A workspace representation.

By default, `tuist generate` generates an Xcode workspace that has the same name as the current project.
It includes the project and all its dependencies.

Tuist allows customizing this behaviour by defining a workspace manifest within a `Workspace.swift` file.

Workspace manifests allow specifying a list of projects to generate and include in an Xcode workspace.
Those projects don’t necessarily have to depend on one another.
Additionally, files and folder references _(such as documentation files)_ can be included in a workspace manifest.

The snippet below shows an example workspace manifest:

```swift
import ProjectDescription

let workspace = Workspace(
    name: "Workspace",
    projects: ["Projects/**"]
)
```

## Properties
### `name`

```swift
public let name: String
```

The name of the workspace. Also, the file name of the generated Xcode workspace.

### `projects`

```swift
public let projects: [Path]
```

The paths (or glob patterns) to manifest projects.

### `schemes`

```swift
public let schemes: [Scheme]
```

The custom schemes for the workspace. Default schemes for each target are generated by default.

### `fileHeaderTemplate`

```swift
public let fileHeaderTemplate: FileHeaderTemplate?
```

The custom file header template for Xcode built-in file templates.

### `additionalFiles`

```swift
public let additionalFiles: [FileElement]
```

The additional files for the workspace. For project's additional files, see ``Project/additionalFiles``.

### `generationOptions`

```swift
public let generationOptions: GenerationOptions
```

The generation configuration of the workspace.

## Methods
### `init(name:projects:schemes:fileHeaderTemplate:additionalFiles:generationOptions:)`

```swift
public init(
    name: String,
    projects: [Path],
    schemes: [Scheme] = [],
    fileHeaderTemplate: FileHeaderTemplate? = nil,
    additionalFiles: [FileElement] = [],
    generationOptions: GenerationOptions = .options()
)
```
