# Project structure

Learn about the structure of Tuist projects and how to organize them.

## Overview

Although Tuist projects are commonly used to supersede Xcode projects, they are not limited to this use case. Tuist projects are also used to generate other types of projects, such as templates, plugins, and tasks. This document describes the structure of Tuist projects and how to organize them.

### Xcode projects

Xcode projects are **the most common type of project generated by Tuist.** They are used to build apps, frameworks, and libraries among others. Unlike Xcode projects, Tuist projects are defined in Swift, which makes them more flexible and easier to maintain. Tuist projects are also more declarative, which makes them easier to understand and reason about. The following structure shows a typical Tuist project that generates an Xcode project:

> Note: The definition files are referred to as **manifest files** throughout the documentation.

```bash
Tuist/
  Config.swift
  Package.swift
  ProjectDescriptionHelpers/
Projects/
  App/
    Project.swift
  Feature/
    Project.swift
Workspace.swift
```

- **Tuist directory:** This directory has two purposes. First, it signals **where the root of the project is**. This allows constructing paths relative to the root of the project, and also also running Tuist commands from any directory within the project. Second, it's the container for the following files:
  - **Config.swift:** This file contains configuration for Tuist that's shared across all the projects, workspaces, and environments. For example, it can be used to disable automatic generation of schemes, or to define the deployment target of the projects.
  - **Package.swift:** This file contains Swift Package dependencies for Tuist to integrate them using Xcode projects and targets (like [CocoaPods](https://cococapods)) that are configurable and optimizable. <!-- TODO: Add a link to the dependencies page -->
  - **ProjectDescriptionHelpers:** This directory contains Swift code that's shared across all the manifest files. Manifest files can `import ProjectDescriptionHelpers` to use the code defined in this directory. Sharing code is useful to avoid duplications and ensure consistency across the projects.

- **Workspace.swift:** This manifest represents an Xcode workspace. It's used to group other projects and can also add additional files and schemes.
- **Project.swift:** This manifest represents an Xcode project. It's used to define the targets that are part of the project, and their dependencies.

When interacting with the above project, commads expect to find either a `Workspace.swift` or a `Project.swift` file in the working directory or the directory indicated via the `--path` flag. The manifest should be in a directory or subdirectory of a directory containing a `Tuist` directory, which represents the root of the project.

> Tip: Xcode workspaces allowed splitting projects into multiple Xcode projects to reduce the likelihood of merge conflicts. If that's what you were using workspaces for, you don't need them in Tuist. Tuist auto-generates a workspace containing a project and its dependencies' projects. 

<!-- TODO: Document the structure of a plugin >
<!-- TODO: Document the structure of a template >